# System-of-operational-indication-of-process-parameters
In this project, the following tasks were performed: 
1.	The Wi-Fi access point was configured on the Raspberry Pi microcomputer. This access point uses the built-in Wi-Fi module, but if the range of the built-in module is not enough, it is possible to connect USB adapters to increase it. Also, this access point is assigned a static IP address, a network name, a password and a range of IP addresses that will be provided to connected devices. These access settings can be changed if necessary by editing configuration files.
2.	The connection was made to the industrial logic controller. The connection was made using the industrial Modbus protocol and USB-RS485 adapter. In order to activate the Modbus protocol and allow access to the parameters for the Siemens S7-200 controller, an LD program was written in which the connection parameters are specified. The same connection parameters were used in the program for the Raspberry Pi. In addition, Modbus-TK was chosen for further work, as it provides a stable connection to the PLC and is capable of reading up to 120 parameters in 1 request.
3.	The server was created that provides the transfer of process parameters. This server is implemented using the TCP protocol and the socketserver library. In order to provide simultaneous connection of several clients, threads were created that are created for each client and thread read requests for parameters of this client only, independently of other streams. Also implemented the ability to cache read parameters. Thanks to caching, the speed of the server increases by almost 3 times, if several clients are connected to it, which require the same parameters.
4.	The client application for the Android operating system was developed. This application is implemented using the Kivy and Socket libraries. This application provides the ability to customize the alarm and select the parameters that you want to receive. Also, this application, thanks to the cross-platform library Kivy is able to work on operating systems Window and Linux.
Thus, the developed system was successfully tested on the Siemens S7-200 controller with the transfer of parameters to the smartphone. Failures and errors were not observed in its operation.
Due to the fact that this system uses the Modbus protocol, its application is not limited to the Siemens S7-200 controller. It can be used to read parameters from any controllers that support the Modbus protocol.
This system can be applied at various enterprises where the process control system is used, in order to promptly notify the operating personnel of the process deviation from the specified limits and emergency situation.
In the future, the following system improvements can be made:
1.	Using a more compact, cheap and energy-efficient microcomputer Raspberry Pi Zero instead of Raspberry Pi 3B.
2.	Compile an application for the IOS operating system to support Apple devices.
3.	Implementing process readings via Ethernet protocol to increase the number of controllers supported.
